["\nBettina Hoffmann, Parliamentary State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMUV), today accepted a guarantee declaration from the Arbeitsgemeinschaft gewerblich genutzter PPK-Verpackungen (AGEPA) in Berlin. In the declaration, the German industry associations of packaging manufacturers commit to maintaining and further improving the high level of recycling of transport packaging made of paper, cardboard and carton (PPC). The aim is to increase the recycling rate from the current ninety per cent to 95 per cent by 2030. An annual AGEPA report is to inform the BMUV about compliance with the targets.\nParliamentary State Secretary Dr Bettina Hoffmann: Old paper and cardboard packaging is a valuable resource for the paper industry. This is because fresh wood is in short supply worldwide and forests are urgently needed as CO₂ reservoirs for climate protection. If more paper is recycled, this is good for climate protection and the business balance sheet. The industry has recognised this and is now a good example of how a sustainable circular economy can succeed. Even at a high level, improvements are still possible. The declared goal of AGEPA's voluntary commitment to recycle as much as 95 per cent of packaging in five years is therefore an important signal.\nCommercial packaging made of paper and cardboard has become increasingly important in recent years, not least due to the rise of the mail order business. The industry's guarantee declaration will supplement the current statutory regulations, such as the new EU Packaging Regulation, on a voluntary basis. The aim is to achieve a recycling rate of 95 per cent for PPK packaging by 2030.\nThis high rate is to be achieved, for example, by recycling more waste paper. A new advisory board will support AGEPA in an advisory capacity on these technological issues and the possibility of reusable packaging made from PPK. AGEPA's annual report is the first time that the volume and utilisation of commercial PPK packaging is regularly presented to the Federal Government and the public in a certified format.\n", '\nThe Federal Ministry for the Environment has today selected 100 model projects for climate adaptation in social institutions. This marks the start of the third application window of the Climate adaptation in social institutions (AnpaSo) funding guideline. Facilities for people with disabilities, day-care centres, retirement and nursing homes and other social institutions will receive a total of 11.85 million euros in funding to help them adapt to the consequences of global warming. The focus is on climate adaptation concepts and projects that utilise nature-based measures such as green roofs and façade greening, the unsealing of surfaces or the creation of water features. They serve both climate adaptation and natural climate protection, biodiversity, rainwater storage, improved air quality and noise protection.\nFederal Environment Minister Steffi Lemke: As a result of global warming, heavy rainfall, droughts and prolonged heatwaves will occur more frequently and more severely in future. People who are cared for in social institutions - such as children, the elderly and those in need of care - are particularly affected by such extreme weather events and are unable to protect themselves well. This is why we specifically support day-care centres, care homes and other facilities in climate protection. Our focus here is on nature-based solutions such as green roofs, shading through tree planting and the creation of water features. Such solutions provide more protection for people and help to protect the climate at the same time.\nThe Climate adaptation in social institutions (AnpaSo) funding guideline is aimed at local authorities, non-profit associations and organisations and companies in the health, care and social sectors throughout Germany. The Federal Ministry for the Environment promotes holistic climate adaptation concepts and the implementation of concept-based and exemplary investment measures. In this way, social institutions are supported in arming themselves against the consequences of climate change. The funded projects should have a distinct model character and encourage other stakeholders to emulate them through existing networks. The applications in the current funding window include, for example, green roofs, façades and interiors to reduce heat stress in buildings, as well as innovative approaches to rainwater infiltration such as the creation of play troughs with a retention function in the outdoor area of a day care centre. All applicants are currently receiving notification of the outcome of the selection process.\n', 'The production and consumption of clothing causes enormous amounts of emissions worldwide and particularly in the EU. As clothing is essential, the EU, among others, is developing new guidelines on how the textile industry can be made more sustainable. Garments are to be made more durable and emit fewer microplastics. They should also be easier to recycle, thereby creating a circular economy. This affects all areas of value creation. Artificial intelligence (AI) methods can help to make garments more sustainable and avoid overproduction.innovative software solutions for the textile industry INTEX specialises in software solutions for the textile industry and supports almost all processes in the textile supply chain with its solutions. From ERP processes to supply chain, INTEX has over 30 years of experience and almost 400 customers. The Green-AI Hub pilot project with INTEX is making the textile industry more sustainable with the help of suitable AI solutions along the entire process chain. Challenge: Sustainability in the design processIn the future, textile manufacturers will have to place more emphasis on sustainability due to new EU legislation and growing consumer awareness. The industry is struggling with a poor image and is strongly characterised by changing trends. Currently, garments are often designed without sustainability in mind, and environmentally friendly and socially responsible business models are rare. However, if sustainability aspects such as durability, recyclability and the proportion of microplastics are already taken into account when designing clothing, resource savings can be achieved over the entire life cycle. To promote a sustainable design process, INTEX therefore relies on the expertise of the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand to implement appropriate AI solutions. Consideration of sustainability criteria in the design process using an AI-supported suggestion systemIn the pilot project, an AI-supported suggestion system is being used to make garments more sustainable in textile design. The system is trained on the basis of the materials used, processing steps and information on durability, return rates, etc. This system can then suggest material combinations that enable a high degree of recycling and longevity and thus have less impact on the environment. This requires a knowledge database with the relevant information. This data should first be determined manually (e.g. recycling-optimised material selection, material quality, etc.) and then automatically as soon as sufficient life cycle data is available. This will be followed by training of the suggestion system, which will be tested by two customers using INTEX software, and a second use case is also planned in the pilot project. This will involve designing an AI system for predicting stock levels in online shopping and shipping. It will allow more accurate predictions to be made regarding expected sales via the various sales channels. This should reduce overproduction and save transport routes.Resource savings through an AI-based suggestion system and an AI system for inventory forecastingThe AI-based suggestion system supports the selection of raw materials during the design process (development). This has positive effects on the use of raw materials and the entire value chain right through to the end of life, as materials are used that last longer and can be recycled more easily. This can change the existing processes of clothing manufacturers if they design their garments accordingly. The AI system for inventory forecasting starts with production planning, which results in resource savings in other parts of the value chain - especially in production and transport.Resource savings through AI-supported suggestion system for sustainability criteria in the design processThe pilot project of the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand enables resource savings through an extended service life of garments and improved recyclability. The AI solution is integrated into the existing INTEX software. This creates a multiplier effect across the industry. Even if the individual savings per item of clothing are only ten percent, several million tonnes of material could be saved each year if the solution is used on a broad scale. This would also have a far-reaching impact on CO2, water, chemicals and other resources in the areas of production, logistics and disposal. We therefore expect the solution to amortise very quickly and make a significant positive contribution to the environment.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: Decision-making & knowledge representation and processing AI model: AI-supported recommender system\n\nValue creation\nPhase: Development & productionAim of AI: Resource-saving changes in the design process; inventory prediction\n\nResource efficiency\nMaterial savings: several tonnes of millions of textiles per year (multiplier effect)Reduction of microplastic emissions by saving synthetic materials\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Software solutions in the textile industryINTEX EDV-Software GmbH', 'The company SWMS creates software for the additive manufacturing of large components. Printing is carried out using an industrial robot to which a print effector is attached. During this printing process, however, there are always deviations, e.g. due to changes in the curing process or inaccuracies in the layer-by-layer application of the material. The aim of the project is therefore to continuously monitor the entire 3D printing process using sensor components (such as nozzle and thermal cameras) in order to detect printing errors at an early stage.Software solutions for 3D printing from OldenburgSWMS Systemtechnik Ingenieurgesellschaft mbH, founded in 1996, is a technology company for digital industrial solutions based in Oldenburg, Lower Saxony. With around 40 employees, the company offers software solutions in the complex field of automated composite manufacturing that support customers from the design of composite components through to their production. All activities are bundled in the CAESA software environment in corresponding modules and are available as system and manufacturer-independent programming and design software. Customers include companies from the aerospace, automotive, shipbuilding and wind power industries.Challenge: minimising printing errors through AI-supported monitoringA major challenge for the company is to continuously monitor the 3D printing process in order to stop the printing process if errors occur or, ideally, to maintain the print or component by taking countermeasures such as active cooling. As additive manufacturing must also be cost-effective for smaller batch sizes (up to batch size 1), the reliable production of components without major run-in measures is necessary and essential.When manufacturing composite components, flat components can be produced using traditional methods such as printing moulds. The stiffness of these components can be significantly increased by 3D printing support structures into this mould. However, if the 3D print fails, the entire component may be a reject, and currently quality control usually only takes place after the printing process has been completed. An ideal solution would be if a deviation could be detected and countermeasures initiated during the printing process. Simply recognising an error and stopping the printing process without taking countermeasures would also lead to material savings and an increase in resource efficiency.AI-supported object recognition and image segmentation as a solutionThis is precisely where artificial intelligence can come in. AI-supported object recognition or image segmentation can identify printing errors and initiate countermeasures. The AI used here learns image-based object recognition and segmentation using deep learning approaches, and the AI model must first be trained accordingly so that the potential of the AI can be fully utilised. To do this, data from the sensors, such as the nozzle and thermal camera, must first be recorded and labelled manually. Training with labelled data is then necessary before the detection performance can be determined in use. Once the training is complete, live images from the camera can be monitored using the trained AI model, which means that errors during production can be reduced or avoided altogether over time.Added value through AI for companies and customersThe component developed in the pilot project for error detection in 3D printing is intended to become part of control software for non-planar 3D printing, meaning it is an additional service component that is created for the customer. The component itself is used for continuous quality control of the production process. This results in several advantages, including for the customer and not for the company itself: firstly, the aim is to integrate the AI component into the existing control software for additive manufacturing so that the component becomes part of a complete solution. On the other hand, it should lead to a general improvement in the quality of additive 3D printing in the long term, as a broader basis can be created by continuously collecting sensor data in order to not only detect errors, but also to determine and exclude the causes of errors.saving resources by integrating AI-supported monitoring into customer systemsThe areas of service and production in the value chain are addressed in particular. SWMS Systemtechnik Ingenieurgesellschaft mbH is a technology company for digital industrial solutions and not a direct provider of 3D printing services, which means that the AI process will initially only have a minor impact (as part of testing and developing the pilot) on resource efficiency within the company. However, the integration of an error detection component into the control software for additive manufacturing will result in a multiplier effect, as the software can be used by many different companies, and the AI solution will have a significant impact on the consumption of the printing material, known as filament, as the objects to be printed will be continuously monitored for errors during the printing process and quality control will not only take place after the printing process has been completed, as was previously the case. It is estimated that this can save around a third of the material used in desktop 3D printing. In addition, resources for operating and controlling the robot arm, heating the filament and, if necessary, actively cooling the printing material are saved, while the costs for the actual use of the AI solution are relatively low, as they are limited to the use of the trained AI model to analyse the visual data from the cameras, which can now be carried out using standard hardware. Higher costs are incurred when training the AI models, as the training cycles generally require higher-performance hardware or access to computing clusters. In addition, costs arise from the manual labelling of the data and the use of sensors, computers to store the data, licence fees for the system software and construction materials for the setup. How quickly the investment is amortised depends on several parameters, such as the print volume, the amount of filament used and also the tolerance range for deviations in the print.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: object recognition and image segmentation AI model: computer vision\n\nAdded value\nPhase: Production & ServiceAim of AI: Error detection and avoidance in 3D printing of components\n\nResource efficiency\nGHG reduction potential of 2.53 tonnes of CO2eSavings in printing material (filament) and energy\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Software developmentSWMS Systemtechnik Ingenieurgesellschaft mbH Our pilot project at KÜBLER GmbH uses an AI-based system configurator to optimise the ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based configuration of heating systems 4Packaging GmbH is a manufacturer of gravure cylinders. The production of these cylinders ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based quality determination for gravure cylinders The traditional production of orthopaedic insoles requires the use of various superstructures ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-supported 3D printing of orthopaedic insoles', "The traditional production of orthopaedic insoles requires the use of various superstructures and is time-consuming. Johann Herges GmbH, a third-generation shoe manufacturer, is striving to fundamentally transform the production of orthopaedic insoles through the use of artificial intelligence. The company plans to utilise an AI-supported 3D printing process for the production of orthopaedic insoles in order to increase resource efficiency. The pilot project will investigate which advanced machine learning models, such as artificial neural networks (ANN) and support vector machines (SVM), are best suited for this purpose.Innovative production of orthopaedic insoles in SaarbrückenJohann Herges GmbH is an advanced shoe manufacturer that produces a wide range of orthopaedic solutions. This includes customised shoes, customised orthopaedic shoes, compression stockings, bandages, orthoses and, above all, orthopaedic insoles, which address a wide range of clinical pictures. The orthopaedic insoles are manufactured using traditional methods based on footprints in foot foam. Various materials are glued and ground onto blanks for this purpose.challenge: replacing the subtractive production process Depending on the clinical picture, building insoles using blanks can be very time-consuming or even completely impossible. In around 30 per cent of cases, a subtractive process is therefore used, in which insoles are made from blocks of ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA), a petroleum-based product. However, around 80 per cent of the material used in the milling process is lost as waste. An alternative solution is therefore 3D printing of insoles, which produces virtually no waste. Nevertheless, the extensive manual design process often stands in the way of an economical application.additive production process through AI-supported 3D printing3D printing opens up a sustainable alternative with lower material usage. A printable 3D model differs significantly from a model designed for conventional milling. With a 3D-printed model, infill structures must be used to create different stiffnesses within the insert. However, the manual construction of these filling structures is time-consuming. This is where AI comes into play by automating the process. Using pressure measurements, the AI analyses the foot and generates a 3D model with optimal filling structures. As part of the pilot project, the company plans to use advanced machine learning models such as artificial neural networks (ANN) and support vector machines (SVM). The aim is to explore which model is best suited for the application. A training dataset will be created to ensure that the unique expertise and know-how of the orthopaedic technicians is integrated into the automatically generated model. A powerful computer system may be required once for this. However, it should be possible to use it later in the daily workflow without any problems using a standard PC.Resource efficiency through AI-based production changeoverThe project addresses the production section of the value chain. The use of AI significantly simplifies the processes involved in the production of complex insoles. Numerous time-consuming manual steps are a thing of the past, as the construction of the insoles is now realised using 3D printing. The manual work is limited to recording the foot characteristics and making minor adjustments before 3D printing. Overall, this leads to a more efficient use of human labour, while the unique expertise and quality that sets the company apart is maintained in every insole produced through training with manually created data sets.the use of AI has a transformative effect on the company's resource efficiency. The switch from a subtractive to an additive manufacturing method results in a significant reduction in material consumption. Material savings of over 70 per cent have been recorded for plastics, particularly ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA). In addition, the 3D printing process is up to 60 per cent more energy efficient than milling. These developments suggest that a reduction in the use of materials will lead directly to a lower carbon footprint. Although the integration of AI initially requires investment in technology, training and integration, these costs are quickly amortised as significant savings in materials and energy are achieved.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: generation of a 3D model AI model: regression, digital models, artificial neural networks (ANN) and support vector machines (SVM)\n\nValue creation\nPhase: ProductionAim of the AI: Additive production process through AI-supported 3D printing\n\nResource efficiency\nSavings on materials: over 70 per centSavings on energy: up to 60 per centTHG reduction potential of 0.63 t CO2e\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Manufacturing industry, shoe manufacture, orthopaedic shoe technologyHERGES Schuhmanufaktur Our pilot project at KÜBLER GmbH uses an AI-based system configurator to optimise the production ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based configuration of heating systems 4Packaging GmbH is a manufacturer of gravure cylinders. The production of these cylinders ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based quality determination for gravure cylinders The traditional production of orthopaedic insoles requires the use of various superstructures ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-supported 3D printing of orthopaedic insoles", "4Packaging GmbH is a manufacturer of gravure cylinders. The production of these cylinders is an important process in the manufacture of packaging. The quality of the cylinders determines the appearance of the final packaging. Artificial intelligence is intended to help save materials and energy in the production process, determine the quality grade and perform visual quality control. To this end, additional sensors, known as retrofitting, will be attached to 4Packaging's machines and systems. In addition, existing sensor streams and other image data are analysed and merged for each application.Innovative production of gravure cylinders in the Teutoburg Forest4Packaging GmbH is a family business founded in 2000 and based in Dissen am Teutoburger Wald in Lower Saxony, near Osnabrück. Around 120 employees take care of processes that take place before the actual printing of packaging: Artwork and reproduction, packaging development in 3D as well as embossing and gravure form production.  Gravure form production in particular is characterised by the use of materials and energy and the guarantee of high quality. 4Packaging recycles the gravure cylinders used in gravure form production. This is comparable to a sheet of paper and a pencil, whereby the sheet of paper is always reused and new labelling is made possible by an eraser. In practice, this looks different: Chromium and copper are deposited and applied to the cylinder in the micrometre range. The copper layer is used to engrave the printed image. The chrome layer makes the cylinders more resistant so that the printing forme can be used for longer in the printing process. The application and removal process is energy-intensive; for example, chemical solutions are required in the galvanic process to apply the copper layer. Many small parameters, such as the machine settings and the condition of the gravure cylinders, can influence the quality of the gravure cylinders and therefore the print result. Technological change and new requirements from 4Packaging's customers require continuous adjustments to the processes, which 4Packaging always meets innovatively. 4Packaging was the first engraver in the world to install an automated production line and has continuously expanded and modernised it ever since. The digital development of packaging in 3D enables customers to realise their ideas digitally without having to spend resources on physical development. Challenge: Improving process quality in electroplating Ensuring reliable process quality is extremely important in the production of gravure cylinders. The smallest errors, e.g. during the so-called degreasing process, can lead to poor-quality gravure cylinders that are unusable downstream in the printing process. The quality of the gravure cylinder is also determined by the electroplating process. Electroplating is an electrochemical process for applying fine metal layers to a metallic or other conductive surface, e.g. copper and chrome. Various parameters determine the quality of the coating, e.g. the pH value, current density, bath temperature, duration or even the degree of contamination of the bath. The baths are currently monitored manually by sending samples of the chemical baths to the laboratory for analysis. In the pilot project, the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand is using additional sensors to monitor the chemical baths more continuously and recognise sources of interference at an early stage. This significantly improves the process quality in electroplating.Automation and optimisation of quality determination through artificial intelligence Artificial intelligence helps 4Packaging to better understand the influences of the various process parameters on quality and to continuously determine the quality of its products based on visual image and machine data. Artificial neural networks (ANN) are used to analyse the sensor data, which originates from the previous sensors of the machines and systems, but was supplemented by additional sensors installed in the chemical baths, so-called retrofitting, as part of the Green-AI Hub pilot project. The neural network is used to determine the quality of the gravure cylinder. The AI is supplemented by the use of computer vision (image processing), which automatically analyses images of the gravure cylinders for defects and classifies the type of defect. The use of both technologies, i.e. neural networks and computer vision, requires large amounts of data as well as so-called labels, i.e. the categories that are assigned to a data set. For example, the computer vision model requires not only the image data, but also a label indicating which defects are located where. The preparation of the data set for the computer vision model is initially a manual process, i.e. the labelling is carried out by a person. Once an initial computer vision model has been trained, this data preparation step can be automated by the existing model so that only a confirmation and any correction of incorrectly interpreted error detections is carried out. Saving resources through AI-based quality determinationThe AI-based quality determination at 4Packaging will automate manual quality checks so that deviations in the process are recognised earlier. By improving processes with the help of AI-based quality determination, 4Packaging expects to reduce defective gravure cylinders in the production process by 20 per cent in the medium term, which would be up to 403 cylinders per year, with potential savings in both the carbon footprint and the material footprint, which quantifies the life cycle-wide material expenditure. With the use of artificial neural networks (ANN) to analyse sensor data and the use of computer vision, the carbon footprint could be reduced by between 9-12t CO₂ equivalents and the material footprint by 26-73t CO₂ equivalents in relation to annual production. Further reporting on the AI pilot projectThe Handelsblatt visited the AI pilot project 4Packaging and interviewed Federal Environment Minister Steffi Lemke about it, you can find the full article here.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: data analysis and image recognitionAI model: artificial neural networks (ANN) and computer vision\n\nValue creation\nPhase: Production & quality controlAim of AI: Automation of manual processes for quality inspection\n\nResource efficiency\nCarbon footprint savings: 9-12t CO₂ equivalentsMaterial footprint savings: 26-73t CO₂ equivalentsMedium-term reduction in the error rate in the production process by 20 per cent\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Manufacturing, Packaging, Gravure printing4Packaging GmbH Our pilot project at KÜBLER GmbH uses an AI-based system configurator to optimise the production ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based configuration of heating systems 4Packaging GmbH is a manufacturer of gravure cylinders. The production of these cylinders ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based quality determination for gravure cylinders The traditional production of orthopaedic insoles requires the use of various superstructures ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-supported 3D printing of orthopaedic insoles", "In order to achieve the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement, we need to rapidly reduce CO2 emissions worldwide. A significant proportion is generated by industrial processes whose carbon footprints are difficult to calculate. This impairs the transparency and comparability of the carbon footprint of products. The AI pilot project of the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand with CircularTree focuses on an AI solution that supports the calculation of the carbon footprint, achieves better results faster, increases transparency and makes the procedure scalable. This opens up a wide range of new opportunities for decarbonising products.Support for decarbonisationCircularTree, a company founded in Berlin in 2018, has set itself the task of supporting companies in decarbonising their products and supply chains. Its SaaS platform CarbonBlock enables the calculation and exchange of carbon footprints along the supply chain. CarbonBlock is interoperable, meaning it has the ability to interact with all relevant exchange standards and promotes decarbonisation through collaboration with suppliers.challenge of manual CO2 calculationManually calculating the CO2 of product components based on a bill of materials requires considerable human and time resources. Information on the individual components would first have to be searched for online and then assigned to the correct processes in a life cycle assessment (LCA) database (contains industry average values). This requires comprehensive knowledge of materials, experience in dealing with various LCA databases and expertise in CO2 life cycle analyses. For companies with many purchased components, this represents a considerable financial burden.Resource efficiency through automatic calculation of the carbon footprintIn the Green-AI Hub pilot project, an entity mapping (classification) is created. It enables CircularTree's customers to easily identify the product components to calculate their carbon footprint. To achieve this goal, the following steps are planned:More transparency in the value chainThe AI pilot project addresses different stages of the value chain. The first step is to make the carbon footprint of components and raw materials more transparent. The transparency gained in turn supports the selection of suitable components and raw materials in development to minimise the carbon footprint. In production, the increased transparency can ultimately be used to agree targets with suppliers in order to reduce supply chain emissions.increasing efficiency through automationThe carbon footprint of products can be reduced on the basis of the data obtained, for example through the use of recycled materials. This financial efficiency gain is relevant for any company that has to classify product components based on their name. It also reduces the amount of time and labour that CircularTree previously had to invest in manually classifying the CO2 emissions of the numerous components of each product.Gunther Walden, CircularTree GmbH\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: analyseAI model: entity mapping (classification)\n\nValue creation\nPhase: ProductionAim of the AI: Automated classification of the CO2 footprint\n\nResource efficiency\nIncreased efficiency of time, human and financial resourcesPossible reduction of the carbon footprint of products through the use of recycled materials\n\nCompany\nIndustry: LCA analysisCircularTreeFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "Artificial intelligence (AI) at a traditional automotive supplier? The Green-AI Hub pilot project with KÖSTLER GmbH from Annaberg-Buchholz in Saxony shows that this is possible. Among other things, the company processes textiles for airbags. Quality assurance in the production process for these textiles is still carried out manually, which is monotonous and generates waste. With the help of AI, we are developing an automated quality inspection of the fabrics.link to the open source code on GithubKÖSTLER GmbH: An automotive supplier with a historyKÖSTLER is a family business founded by Johann Köstler in Graslitz in 1891. Originally, the company was active in the construction of musical instruments and accessories. After 1945, the company was continued in Nauheim and expanded its business to the automotive industry in 1963. With over 50 years of experience, KÖSTLER is now a leading manufacturer of airbag hinges made of textile fabric. The sites are located in Annaberg-Buchholz and Chomutov, Czech Republic. KÖSTLER produces interior parts such as armrests and sun visors.challenge: increasing quality requirementsLike other medium-sized companies, KÖSTLER is also facing the challenge of a shortage of skilled labour. This makes it difficult to recruit qualified employees, which affects production capacities and the ability to innovate. At the same time, the demands on the automotive industry have increased considerably. End customers expect the highest quality, process reliability and efficiency, and there are stricter standards for the quality and reliability of products and services (IATF 16949 standards). In addition, there are growing expectations for sustainable and innovative materials, particularly in the area of lightweight construction. All of this requires constant adaptation and investment in personnel development and technological advances. This also includes quality assurance.KÖSTLER relies on traditional manual labour and modern production techniques. Many processes are carried out by hand, which guarantees a high level of precision and care. For example, textile nets are elaborately sewn into hinges. Products can therefore be customised very well to specific customer requirements. After completion, the hinges are sold and processed in further production steps, for example by injection moulding into plastic parts. This process enables the textile hinges to be integrated into complex components that are used in the automotive industry and other sectors.Improved quality assurance through artificial intelligenceThe AI pilot project with KÖSTLER relies on AI for quality assurance of the cut textile nets. To this end, an innovative inspection station is being developed that automatically sorts the textiles into good and bad according to requirements.The inspection station uses AI-supported image processing and machine learning to precisely evaluate the textiles. Automated sorting ensures high product quality and reduces defective parts, relieving employees of monotonous work and allowing them to concentrate on more demanding tasks as fewer staff are required for quality control. The AI-supported inspection station improves the efficiency and quality of production. In the long term, this strengthens the company's competitiveness and supports sustainable growth.Link to the open source code on GithubResource efficiency through KIKÖSTLER is using AI to increase resource efficiency and achieve significant savings through the AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand. AI-based quality inspection is more precise and consistent than human quality inspection. Another advantage is the early detection of error trends. By continuously monitoring and analysing the production data, the AI can quickly identify deviations and patterns, which enables immediate correction when cutting the textile nets. Currently, two templates made of plastic and metal are produced per design for quality inspection. By implementing the AI-supported inspection station, the need for these templates can be reduced by 50 per cent to one, as well as reducing the space and heating requirements of the large premises currently used for manual quality control. The automated inspection station requires less space and energy, which reduces operating costs and further increases resource efficiency.Sven Pultar, German Research Centre for Artificial Intelligence GmbH\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: data analysis and image recognitionAI model: AI-supported image processing and machine learning\n\nValue creation\nPhase: Quality controlAim of AI: Automation of manual processes for quality inspection\n\nResource efficiency\nLower reject rate and savings in operating costs and materials in production\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Automotive supplierKÖSTLER GmbHFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service assignments. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in North Rhine-Westphalia. The AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand aims to use an AI solution to automate and improve production parameters in the production process by reducing waste and maintaining high product quality.Innovative heat exchanger tubes from the Sauerland regionMPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH in Menden manufactures innovative heat exchanger tubes and thermotechnical products. The casting process, as the first production step, plays a key role here. Today, the parameters depend heavily on the experience of the employees, which can lead to fluctuations in quality. MPG's goal is to make the production process less dependent on the experience of employees through automated parameter optimisation and to make the casting process stable and resource-efficient in the long term.challenges: Reducing quality fluctuations and rejects during the casting processThe casting process at MPG is heavily dependent on the experience of the employees - a circumstance that can lead to quality fluctuations and rejects. With the impending age-related departure of experienced employees, valuable knowledge is lost and the casting processes could become less reliable. A key challenge is to optimise the parameters in such a way that consistently high quality is guaranteed even without individual expertise. As quality defects in casting are often only recognisable after the fact, it is important to reduce the reject rate as early and sustainably as possible.Optimising the casting process with the help of artificial intelligenceThe AI-supported parameter optimisation will be used by the AI pilot project to determine the optimum settings for the casting process. Machine data is processed for this purpose and fed into an AI-based analysis, which is analysed to determine the best combination of factors such as temperature and time. The project relies on statistical test planning to understand the influence of parameters on rejects and quality. Through machine learning, employees receive recommendations for optimal settings or machine parameters are automatically adjusted. This reduces the dependency on experience and valuable knowledge gained by employees is recorded in a database. Optimisation begins in the casting process and can later be extended to other stages, such as pressing and pickling. The aim is to reduce waste and energy costs in the long term and ensure quality - an approach that strengthens MPG in times of a shortage of skilled workers and increasing quality requirements.Saving resources during production AI-supported parameter optimisation increases efficiency and safety in the casting process. AI algorithms calculate optimum settings that reduce rejects and increase production quality. This allows the company to save material and utilise energy in a targeted manner, which reduces production costs. The automated settings relieve the burden on employees and compensate for the loss of knowledge due to age-related departures. With this data-based approach, MPG is creating a basis for scalable automation and therefore more stable, more cost-effective production. Subsequent production steps, which are better coordinated thanks to AI-optimised parameters, also benefit in the long term. This makes MPG more competitive thanks to reliable, resource-efficient processes and enables it to better achieve sustainability goals. Increasing resource efficiency through AI-supported production optimisationAI-supported optimisation helps MPG to conserve resources in the casting process in a targeted manner. Optimising furnace temperatures not only reduces waste, but also material and costs. MPG has wanted to reduce CO₂ emissions and make production more sustainable for years. AI-supported optimisation in the casting process brings MPG even closer to its goal of climate neutrality by 2030. Automation also improves working conditions: Employees spend less time in the energy-intensive casting hall, which is not only more comfortable, but also saves working time. In the long term, the optimisation can be transferred to other steps such as pressing and pickling, enabling MPG to continuously increase resource efficiency throughout the entire production process.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: data analysisAI model: machine learning\n\nValue creation\nPhase: ProductionAim of AI: Prediction of production parameters\n\nResource efficiency\nReduction of overproduction and quality assurance through more precise prediction of production parameters\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Manufacture of thermotechnical productsMPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbHFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small batches. Many of the company's orders have specific electrical and mechanical requirements. This makes it difficult to ensure consistent product quality and to document the manufacturing process and construction specifications. The AI pilot project aims to develop an AI recommendation service based on the existing data collection. This is intended to help developers make better use of Pikatron's historical knowledge in order to save development time and minimise waste.  Power electronics from UsingenPikatron develops and produces customised power electronics. The materials used for this are metals (e.g. iron, copper and aluminium), fossil-based materials (e.g. potting compounds, coilformers and insulating films), organic materials such as packaging and core materials such as ferrites. The electronic products are developed on the basis of customers' technical requirements and according to their needs. This also includes the development of prototypes. After successful tests, these are then released for production and continuously checked with further tests.challenge: making historical development knowledge usable in a context-sensitive manner Currently, technical enquiries with very specific electrical or mechanical requirements are forwarded to individual developers. They develop the products based on their experience, using knowledge and data from developments that have already been completed. However, this data is difficult to access and search. The valuable knowledge built up from similar previous prototypes is hardly accessible. The challenge is therefore to make historical knowledge available to other developers in a context-sensitive way. This could save prototype iterations, for example, as it would be possible to start later in the iteration cycle because existing similar prototypes only need to be adapted.more efficient product development with the help of AI The project aims to develop a recommendation system based on existing data collections. This system should enable developers to access existing knowledge and documentation quickly and efficiently in order to create consistent and optimised product specifications. This can significantly reduce the reject rate and material waste, e.g. during prototype development, by first formalising the technical requirements of the product developers so that they can be processed by the recommendation system. Knowledge graphs will be used to store and link data from developed concepts, prototypes and products. The knowledge graphs are to be developed with the involvement of specialist users and structural knowledge models (domain ontologies) are to be created for the respective subject area.  Furthermore, KPIs are defined, e.g. for material efficiency and scrap reduction, which the system should take into account when generating proposals. On this basis, a corporate memory is created that breaks down data silos, enriches data and enables a comprehensive search. Machine learning approaches such as link prediction and case-based reasoning are used and further developed for this purpose.Resource savings through targeted data suggestionsThe project addresses the section between development and production in the value chain. The historical data is difficult to search and access, as the electronic components are very specific due to the customised development and were created by a large number of different people.  The recommendation system with the developers' data is intended to provide them with suitable suggestions that they are not aware of. The availability of test results and validations of prototypes or series productions support developers in the development of new customised electronics through context-sensitive knowledge. Instead of having to gather the same or similar experiences again by using materials and personnel, developers can build on the proposed construction plans and measurement results of historical prototypes. This shortens the development process and reduces the number of cycles required for development. In addition to saving the associated material, another advantage is that customers can be offered a suitable product earlier due to the shorter development time.Resource efficiency through intelligent recommendation systemThe aim of the pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand is to make historically built knowledge more available and accessible. The recommendation system developed for this purpose is intended to suggest suitable historical electronic components to developers. The combination of measurement and storage data should enable material to be used more resource-efficiently. One KPI for measuring resource efficiency is the savings in prototype development. The costs of AI will mainly relate to the development of the approaches themselves. However, these are also estimated to be low, as the approaches do not involve large models. In the productive environment, the costs of the AI will mainly be attributable to the energy costs of the server on which the recommendation system runs.  \n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: data analysis and assistance AI model: knowledge graph-based recommendation system optimises material usage for customer-specific power electronics\nAdded value\nPhase: DevelopmentAim of the AI: Optimisation of the use of materials in the development of construction plans\n\nResource efficiency\nThe aim is to save iron, copper, aluminium, potting compounds, coilformers and insulation foils.\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Electrical Engineering/Power ElectronicsPikatron GmbHFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "Fieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service assignments. Fieldcode GmbH, which is based in Nuremberg and operates internationally, mainly serves IT outsourcing companies and manufacturers that use the company's platform to coordinate field service assignments. As part of the joint AI pilot project, an LLM (Large Language Model) system is being developed to optimise ticket diagnostics. This system will automatically provide recommendations as to whether a problem can be solved remotely or whether a field service call and certain spare parts are required.web application for managing field service calls from FrankenFieldcode is a leading field service management software based on 20 years of global experience. It offers a zero-touch process that automates the handling of tickets from creation to technicians without manual intervention and makes the work of dispatchers easier. As the most cost-effective solution on the market, Fieldcode offers flexible per-use pricing and advanced BI forecasting. It supports companies in managing the entire lifecycle of their field service, ensuring optimal efficiency and improved customer satisfaction.Challenge: Optimising ticket diagnosticsThe company makes sure to plan and execute field service assignments as efficiently and successfully as possible, with the first fix rate (successful resolution of the problem in the first assignment, no further trips necessary) and the suitability of the selected spare parts being of particular importance. The correct elaboration of the instructions and spare parts during the processing of the ticket is absolutely essential in order to be able to successfully solve the problem on the first visit and thus avoid further visits. The selection of the required spare parts in particular is very difficult, which is why more spare parts are often ordered than are actually required. In addition, spare parts are sometimes ordered and technicians dispatched even though the problem can also be solved remotely. Fieldcode estimates that half of all spare parts ordered and dispatched are not needed. A large proportion of these unused spare parts are sent back and reconditioned, while the rest are disposed of.process optimisation with the help of AIThe AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand optimises this application, as artificial intelligence accesses much faster and more comprehensive information than clerks, for example. Large language models (LLM) are used for this purpose. These models are particularly good at understanding and processing language and are therefore used to analyse the ticket description - i.e. the description of the respective problem - and the language model must also be enriched with specific expert knowledge. The Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) process is integrated to implement this in a resource-efficient manner. Supplementary information, such as historical tickets and instructions for use, is stored in a database and retrieved efficiently.Process optimisation through AI-based analysis of tickets in field service managementThe optimisation of processes in the areas of transport and service enables a more efficient and resource-saving way of working. Employees are supported by the AI system when analysing tickets so that the problem can be solved in a more targeted manner. The improvements lead to fewer trips by technicians to customers, as the first-fix rate is to be increased and possible remote processing is better recognised.Resource savings through the use of artificial intelligenceThe AI solution means that fewer trips to customers are necessary, which means less fuel is consumed. The more targeted selection of spare parts reduces the number of spare parts shipped. This in turn means that fewer parts are reconditioned or disposed of and transport damage occurs less frequently.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: analyseAI model: Large Language Models (LLM), Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)\n\nValue creation\nPhase: ServiceAim of AI: Optimisation through more precise analysis of tickets and derivation of relevant information\n\nResource efficiency\nSaving CO2, as fewer journeys to customers are necessary and of spare parts and materials through better selection\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Field Service Management (FSM) Software / Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)Fieldcode Germany GmbH Fieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service assignments. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "GreenGate AG from Windeck (North Rhine-Westphalia) develops software for operations management and maintenance solutions. It is increasingly integrating electric vehicles into its processes. The aim of the Green-AI Hub pilot project is to use AI-based prediction models to develop improved maintenance and servicing strategies for these vehicles. The aim is to avoid additional trips and the incorrect production of spare parts.Workforce and asset management from WindeckGreenGate AG from Windeck in North Rhine-Westphalia is a software provider founded in 2020 that specialises in operational management and maintenance solutions (workforce and asset management). Its main areas of activity are the development and sale of software and hardware, associated services and consulting as well as the organisation of training courses and seminars. Many of its customers are regional utility companies, such as energy network operators, who use electric vehicles, for example when technicians replace a household's electricity meter. The aim is to make these deployments as effective and environmentally friendly as possible by taking processes and customer requirements into account.suitable maintenance of electric vehiclesThe current study situation indicates that there will be a significant shift in automotive drive types by 2030, from the combustion engine to alternative drive types. Electric vehicles offer regional service providers an opportunity to fulfil the tasks to be performed in the supply area in a more cost-efficient and environmentally friendly manner. However, the service life of electric vehicles is heavily dependent on the appropriate maintenance of the battery and is correspondingly sensitive to route planning, frequency and intensity of use and driving behaviour.Deployment control tool for electric vehiclesAn AI-based decision support system is being designed and implemented as a prototype to facilitate and improve the use of electric vehicles. To this end, the AI pilot project of the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand is investigating the use of advanced AI to improve usage planning and route optimisation. This is done by overcoming the limitations of conventional single-point predictions through uncertainty quantification (UQ), i.e. including certain uncertainty factors in the predictions. This integration is intended to increase the transparency and reliability of the models and reveal correlations between route planning, driving behaviour and environmentally conscious vehicle use. Methods of uncertainty quantification are being researched, including ad-hoc techniques and conformal predictions. In addition, methods are used to explain how the AI arrives at its predictions, so-called eXplainable AI. This enables the people who make the decisions and create plans to better understand how the AI works with model predictions and avoid problems such as defective batteries or delays.optimised process and route planning By using advanced machine learning and explainable AI methods, GreenGate AG's customers will be able to carry out smarter and more efficient scheduling and route planning in the future. The uncertainty analysis integrated into the ML modelling process provides deep insights into model reliability and thus increases the transparency of decisions. This increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the entire process chain. In addition, the methods developed help to avoid problems such as premature battery defects or delays in order fulfilment. This would represent significant added value for GreenGate AG's customers.Resource efficiency through optimised maintenanceThe use of the AI methods described to optimise scheduling and route planning significantly increases resource efficiency.  Improved planning processes and the avoidance of spontaneous rescheduling (ad hoc) optimise the use of materials and maximise the service life of electric vehicle batteries. This leads to a reduction in resource consumption and more sustainable utilisation of the materials used. The combination of individual predictions and general behavioural predictions supports both individual decision-making processes and process planning, thereby avoiding unnecessary material waste and increasing overall resource efficiency.Frank Lagemann, GreenGate AGNijat Mehdiyev, German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence GmbH\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAbility of AI: predict, explainAI model: XAI models, UQ model esp. conformal prediction\n\nValue creation\nPhase: ServiceAim of AI: Extending the service life of electric vehicle batteries and optimised route planning\n\nResource efficiency\nIncreasing the usability of e-vehicles for customersExtending the service life of e-vehicle batteries\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Service sectorGreenGate AGFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "Brammibal's Donuts, a pastry manufacturer from Berlin, and Foodtracks, a software provider for bakeries and organic supermarkets from Münster, are planning to use an AI solution to reduce food waste and protect the environment. To this end, the AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand is developing forecasting algorithms that can predict the daily requirements of baked goods.Link to the open source code on GithubSoftware development and baking craftsmanshipBrammibal's Donuts, known for its vegan pastries, especially donuts, was founded in 2015 and operates more than 10 retail locations in Berlin and Hamburg. The vegan donuts are freshly handmade every morning in the company's own bakery. As the donuts do not contain any preservatives, they are more perishable and should ideally be eaten on the same day. The AI pilot project is being realised together with Foodtracks. Foodtracks develops software that enables bakeries to make daily recommendations to optimise quantity planning. Founded in 2017, the company supplies over 70 bakeries and organic supermarkets throughout Germany. In total, the company serves around 2,800 separate retail locations.Challenge: forecasting demandDue to the short shelf life of many bakery products, an average of almost 36 per cent of the goods produced in the bakery industry end up as food waste. For efficient and sustainable production, it is therefore necessary to predict the quantities to be produced for local demand as accurately as possible. However, the demand for baked goods varies greatly and is influenced by time and local factors, such as the day of the week or the location of the branch. In addition, the bakery products on offer and the needs of customers differ from shop to shop. This makes it difficult to predict order quantities. Another challenge: the regional store managers who are responsible for the orders have to trust the AI models and their predictions. If they adjust the order quantities retrospectively, this can lead to over-ordering and food waste in the long term.sustainable management with the help of KIFoodtracks already uses AI models that predict the optimal quantity of baked goods, for example, and support the decision on the production quantity. The models enable intelligent daily volume planning and help bakeries to operate more sustainably. Brammibal's Donuts currently uses similar AI techniques for its own internal order processing, and the new AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand aims to improve the AI models of SMEs. The starting point for this is the AI models of the individual branches: the AI models are to be further optimised using external data and new deep learning techniques, and in addition to the model improvements, the new AI techniques are to be combined with new intelligent design interfaces. This should increase store managers' confidence and understanding of the AI models when they place their daily orders. The AI models are being developed together with experts from the German Research Centre for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI)Reducing environmental impact by reducing food wasteBread is a staple food and yet one of the most wasted foods. These losses have a high environmental impact that can be reduced by better predicting and managing food orders, and the accuracy of food ordering has a high economic impact. Over-ordering results in wasted labour and materials, while under-ordering can lead to early sell-outs, which can have a negative impact on customer satisfaction. Other problems of early sell-outs include retail shops closing early, forcing employees to end their workday early and potentially losing sales, and an optimised ordering system with simple design and more accurate predictions can help minimise waste of bread, donuts and other baked goods and reduce the environmental and economic impact of waste. AI solutions developed for bakeries with limited data could also benefit other SMEs in various sectors.Link to open source code on GithubBakery sector offers great potential to save resourcesIn Germany, more than 18 million tonnes of food are thrown away every year. Almost 10 per cent of this comes from the baked goods sector. This waste is equivalent to the consumption of 398,000 hectares of valuable farmland and the emission of 2.46 million tonnes of greenhouse gases (WWF, 2018).438,508 donuts were wasted at Brammibal's Donuts alone last year, which corresponds to 17 per cent of all donuts produced (2.58 million pieces). The aim is to reduce the number of donuts thrown away by more than 200,000, which is roughly equivalent to the consumption of organic and biological materials such as 5,500 kg of wheat flour, 4,000 kg of sugar, 1,000 litres of rapeseed oil, 222 kg of yeast, 200 kg of chocolate and 134 kg of almonds, and even more than that: with the new AI solution developed in the AI pilot project, Foodtracks could reduce bakery waste in its customers' 2,800 shops by 3,500 tonnes within a year.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: analysing, forecasting optimizationAI model: deep learning, time-series forecasting\n\nValue creation\nPhase: ProductionAim of the AI: Forecasting the daily order quantity\n\nResource efficiency\nSavings of 3,500 tonnes of food waste per year, which corresponds to a GHG reduction potential of 478 tonnes of CO2eSavings of 200,000 donuts per year\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Baked goodsBrammibal's DonutsFoodtracks Fieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The application ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small batches. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "Concular GmbH focuses on circular construction and supports other construction companies and the property industry in building more sustainably. Together with its partner Circular Structural Design from Berlin, matching algorithms are being developed within the AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand to take reusable components into account when planning new buildings.Link to the open source code on GithubCircular construction from BerlinThe Berlin-based companies Circular Structural Design and Concular are both active in the field of circular construction. They help companies in the construction and property sector to act more sustainably. Circular construction refers to a sustainable construction process that aims to conserve resources by reusing components. These range from movable elements such as tables and windows to load-bearing structures such as walls, ceilings and beams. The reusable components are offered by Concular GmbH in its online store and via a plugin in the Autodesk Revit planning software. An AI-supported recommendation system is designed to help integrate existing components into new building designs, taking their load-bearing capacity into account. The entire building is included in the analysis in order to provide holistic recommendations.challenge: simplifying and speeding up the search for componentsWith newly manufactured components, companies can decide for themselves what they should look like and can specify the dimensions to the centimetre. This is not possible with reused components. These differ depending on the donor building and must be found by civil engineers to match new construction projects. In addition, construction engineers must be guided by the available supply and search for suitable components on platforms. In order to optimise the process of conserving resources through reuse, the component search must be simple and fast. The process is already simplified by a plugin developed by Concular for the widely used Autodesk Revit planning software. For even faster processing, the plugin must be able to provide users with the best possible support in filtering the most suitable components and also be able to make automated recommendations for the building as a whole.the AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand is intended to implement an AI-supported recommendation system. It will integrate existing components into new building designs, taking their load-bearing capacity into account.optimisation of the recommendation system for the search for suitable components by AIArtificial intelligence (AI) helps Circular Structural Design and Concular to optimally filter their range of reusable components for civil engineers so that the most suitable components are suggested. In addition, suggestions are made when considering the building as a whole in order to maximise the number of reused components and thus the resource savings for the entire building. The process is rounded off by the integrated calculation of the load-bearing capacity of load-bearing components and the inclusion of possible tolerances and adaptation options for components.Link to the open source code on GithubReuse of components in the end-of-life phaseThe AI-based recommendation system for components will complement the already developed plugin in the planning software by improving the added value at the end of life and increasing the reuse of components. Thanks to reuse, the components do not have to be disposed of or recycled at the end of their life cycle, but can be used directly in new buildings. Movable and easily dismantled components can be reused with minimal effort. Load-bearing components are only dismantled as far as necessary to enable transport.resource savings through AI-based recommender systemThe AI-supported solution noticeably improves the suggestions of reusable components for the users of the plugin, potentially increasing the use of the tool. The integration of tolerances and customisation options also makes it possible to suggest components to users that can be installed with minimal adjustments. Based on this, the whole building analysis will provide users with recommendations for the entire building so that potential resource savings can be fully utilised.Julius Schäufele, Concular GmbHPatrick Teuffel, Circular Structural DesignFabian Reichwald, German Research Centre for Artificial Intelligence GmbH\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: Recommendation of elements based on user inputAI model: Recommendation system\n\nValue creation\nPhase: End of LifeAim of the AI: Suggestion of re-use components from Concular's shop system, taking into account static requirements\n\nResource efficiency\nInformation to follow\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Circular ConstructionConcular GmbHCircular Structural DesignFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "Our pilot project at KÜBLER GmbH uses an AI-based system configurator to optimise the construction of heating systems for halls and warehouses.Link to open source code on GithubConstruction of hall heating systemsKÜBLER manufactures systems that heat halls in a particularly energy-efficient manner. The portfolio is supplemented by device variants with lighting, cooling and ventilation concepts as well as thermal-supported heating. The latest generation of infrared heaters (FUTURA and MAXIMA E-Hybrid) utilise biogas, liquid gas, hydrogen (components), natural gas or electricity. Depending on price or availability, it is possible to switch back and forth between these energy sources.Customised configuration of systems 3D models of the halls are used to plan the efficient use of the heaters. Materials made of metals, plastics, cardboard, glass fibres and composite materials are used in the production process. The company has various individual solutions for configuring, planning and preparing quotations for systems, such as calculating the heating load and selecting the type and number of units. Information on the systems, such as CAD plans and operating data, is available in different formats in different places.digital twin with visual simulationThe pilot project of the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand therefore links the different information for the first time via a digital twin. This analyses the data, which enables enormous savings potential for future systems by revealing oversizing and optimising the technical coordination of individual system components.The digital twin is supplemented by mixed reality glasses that visualise the system. This allows planned installations to be visually checked in advance on site, e.g. in an assembly hall, in order to identify the most suitable installation of the hall heating systems based on empirical values and visual feedback. This can be adjusted again later in the process if necessary. The visual simulation can be used to identify any direct savings potential, such as the fact that fewer or smaller systems are required than originally assumed. Indirect savings potential can also be recognised. For example, it is possible to deduce whether an additional appliance is required. This would allow the heating appliances to run in their efficient operating mode for longer and be used in a more resource-efficient, durable and sustainable manner overall.AI as a data interfaceThe digital twin can be used to achieve resource savings in various phases. A digital product passport within the digital twin lists recyclable components, a step towards a circular economy. Savings can also be achieved during operation. Simulation and mixed reality visualisation scenarios can be used to reduce the number or size of systems used. It is also possible to avoid peak operation using the digital image of the appliances in the digital twin and with the knowledge of appliance utilisation. The pilot project considers the hall heating systems in an overall context (Smart Living, Smart City, Industry 4.0 etc.) and includes other sensors and information sources (e.g. hall activity) in the analysis (shared data space). This makes it possible to formulate more precise assessments of the mode and type of utilisation and thus holistic predictions. A uniform data interface in the digital twin bundles all the data that is important for operation.Link to the open source code on GithubOptimised system configuration saves resourcesThe use of AI not only has an impact on the company's resource efficiency, but also on the resource efficiency of the customers where KÜBLER infrared heaters have been or will be installed. This also applies retrospectively to infrared heaters that have already been installed. For example, maintenance can be adapted to avoid system failure, cost-intensive, unscheduled repairs, wasted resources for journeys or cost-intensive consequential damage. Improved planning and dimensioning of new halls allows utilisation data to be collected and the size and equipment of similar halls to be better planned in future. In addition, AI and the digital twin of the heating systems are being developed and continuously improved. In this way, the pilot project will save material, energy and CO2 in equal measure. Via the link you will find an RTL report in the Nachtjournal from 31.05.2024 (from minute 27:35) on the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand and hall heating systems from KÜBLER.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: recommendation for action and visualisationAI model: digital twin\n\nAdded value\nPhase: ProductionAI objective: Optimised use and configuration of heating systems\n\nResource efficiency\nSavings in the primary energy source for the customerMaterial savings during constructionLonger service life of components\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Energy-saving industrial and commercial heating systemsApprox. 130 employeesKÜBLER GmbH Energiesparende Hallenheizungen Fieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service assignments. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small batches. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", 'The Homburg site of Robert Bosch GmbH manufactures state-of-the-art diesel technologies for cars and commercial vehicles, among other things. Expertise in the field of hydrogen technology is also gradually being built up there. Milling is a central process in the associated metal processing. A major challenge in milling processes and the production of large quantities lies in determining the intervals for replacing tools in order to avoid quality problems. An AI-based solution is to be used to determine and classify the actual wear and tear of these tools in order to determine the optimum time for tool changes.objective: To determine the actual wear and tear of tools in order to optimise their use and avoid the loss of the workpiece due to tool breakage.Implementation: AI methods from the field of supervised learning and the availability of data in the company enable the training of an AI model to automatically determine the wear status of various tools.effect: By determining the actual change intervals of each tool, the useful life of the tools is increased and tool failures are avoided. As the tools used in production leave a large CO2 footprint, the lower tool consumption and the avoidance of tool breakages also contribute to climate protection.Fieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The tools used in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing', "GROUP SCHUMACHER from Eichelhardt in Rhineland-Palatinate is a global player in the agricultural technology sector that develops, produces and sells components and wear parts for harvesting machinery. The company's diverse product range leads to long planning times for the procurement of raw materials. Another challenge is fluctuations in customer requirements, which result in high stock levels and overproduction. The AI pilot project aims to use AI to enable more efficient planning of demand and procurement.objective: Implementation of an AI-optimised data-based forecast for demand-based purchasing and better production planning.implementation: An AI system with historical sales, purchasing and depreciation data is to be used to obtain various correlating data that can be used to predict customer requirements and the associated demand for raw materials for production.Effect: The aim of the AI pilot project is to reduce the procurement of unused raw materials and the overproduction of unneeded items by 10-15% through the optimised prediction of customer requirements.Fieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "Schaltungsdruck Storz GmbH + Co KG is faced with the challenge of minimising the resource-intensive but process-related overproduction of printed circuit boards. The current approach to controlling overproduction often results in PCBs that cannot be reused. The targeted use of artificial intelligence to better predict bad parts should minimise the number of good parts unnecessarily overproduced as buffers, which not only lowers material and energy costs, but also reduces the environmental impact.High-precision printed circuit boards from BreisgauSchaltungsdruck Storz GmbH + Co. KG from Kenzingen manufactures high-precision printed circuit boards (PCBs) for various industries. Production includes numerous process steps such as chemical cleaning, pressing, drilling and milling, exposure, etching and galvanic processes. These process steps place complex demands on materials and precision. Raw materials such as copper, gold, epoxy resin, glass fibre, polymer plastics and various chemicals are used for the individual steps.Challenge: Reducing overproductionThe production of printed circuit boards is resource-intensive and, due to its complexity, is accompanied by unavoidable rejects in production, which requires overproduction to ensure the delivery quantity. This overproduction leads to increased material consumption and costs, as well as unnecessary environmental pollution. At present, the production quantity is determined on the basis of employees' experience, but this is not very precise. This leads to a surplus of good parts that are not used for various reasons and usually have to be disposed of.precise predictions in production with the help of AIAn AI system should minimise the extent of overproduction by making precise predictions of production requirements. This involves forecasting the probable quantity of inherently bad parts that will occur. This depends largely on the degree of complexity and characteristic properties of the printed circuit boards produced. The AI system can be trained using the company's extensive database of past production processes. As the data is partly unstructured, large language models (LLMs) are also used in the data preparation step, and in the new AI-supported process - based on the PCB layout and the customer's delivery specifications - an optimal estimate is made for the number of PCBs to be produced. This minimises the overproduction of unusable good parts.Resource savings through AI-based data analysisThe section of the value chain addressed is production. The AI solution improves production processes by reducing overproduction and thus saving material and energy. This lowers costs and reduces waste, which strengthens the company's sustainability. In addition, more precise planning enables more efficient use of resources and increases competitiveness.Resource savings through the use of artificial intelligenceThe use of AI leads to a significant improvement in resource efficiency within the company. More precise predictions of production requirements reduce overproduction, which lowers both material consumption and energy requirements. As a result, the company saves around 3,370 kg of material per year, including 150 kg of copper, 170 kg of aluminium, 1,275 kg of epoxy resin, 1,775 kg of glass fibre and various chemical mixtures. The use of AI means that less energy is required, as the optimisation of production processes also leads to a reduction in CO2 emissions. Reducing the production volume also results in less contaminated waste water that needs to be treated, while the necessary calculations of the AI system per order only require a few seconds of computing power and can be run on end customer hardware.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: Data analysisAI model: Large Language Models (LLMs), Random Forests\n\nValue creation\nPhase: ProductionAim of the AI: Predicting production requirements\n\nResource efficiency\nReduction of overproduction through more precise predictions of production requirementsMaterial savings of around 3,370 kg per year\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Production and distribution of printed circuit boards (PCBs)Schaltungsdruck Storz GmbH + Co KGFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "ULT AG from Saxony would like to be able to plan material requirements and order times more precisely in order to avoid excess stock and high storage costs. The AI pilot project with the BMUKN's Green-AI Hub Mittelstand is intended to provide a solution: The management of material procurement and warehousing is to be significantly improved through the use of AI applications. This should enable precise demand forecasts in order to optimise the scope and timing of orders. This not only reduces storage costs and capital commitment, but also minimises the risk of having to dispose of specific materials when certain products run out. Thanks to more efficient transport logistics and resource utilisation, material and energy consumption and the resulting CO2 emissions can be significantly reduced.Lufttechnik aus LöbauULT AG produces extraction and filter units for air purification and systems for process air drying at its Löbau site in Saxony. These systems are used in a wide range of industries, such as mechanical engineering, electronics production, medical technology, laboratories, trade and additive manufacturing. ULT uses high-quality materials and components made of steel, copper, aluminium and plastic. The ordering and storage processes are currently controlled using manual planning, which requires intensive data maintenance and administration.Sustainable optimisation of ordering and storage processesThe AI pilot project of the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand is intended to enable ULT AG to plan material requirements and procurement processes more precisely in order to reduce excess stock, scrapping and storage requirements. Currently, requirements are determined using an Excel tool, which is time-consuming to maintain and requires extensive experience on the part of the planner. A more efficient solution would be to use an AI-supported system that creates data-based demand forecasts, optimises procurement parameters and takes into account the individual circumstances of potential suppliers. This can sustainably reduce material waste, storage costs and CO2 emissions.Intelligent tool for precise planningThe applications developed focus on time series analyses, uncertainty quantification and explainable AI (XAI) for the transparent and reliable prediction of material requirements and configuration of procurement orders. The combination of machine learning methods with human-in-the-loop functionalities allows predictions to be validated by experts and adjusted if necessary. Historical order, stock and consumption data form the basis for forecasts and are supplemented by external market information. Additional data sources can be integrated for specific analyses. With the planned approach, the AI system continuously analyses the data and generates recommendations that are reviewed and used by experts. In this way, well-founded, comprehensible decisions are made that reduce stock levels and excess stock, optimise logistics processes and reduce CO2 emissions - an important step towards sustainably increasing efficiency at ULT AG.Data-driven decision-making strategies in logisticsThe project addresses critical areas of the value chain, in particular material requirements planning, procurement, warehousing and logistics. With the AI-supported solution, ULT can derive demand forecasts more accurately and flexibly from acute scenarios so that the timing, quantities and frequency of procurement processes are aligned with both economic and ecological goals. This reduces the amount of capital tied up and the risk of excess stock that has to be scrapped at a later date. Targeted data analyses, an improved understanding of demand cycles and the consideration of documented experience with suppliers make order management faster and more precise. Even less experienced planners can be supported in the execution of procurement processes through the data-based approach. This can prevent errors and provide employees with additional decision-making certainty. The solution also helps to gain an overview of certain effects, such as expenses incurred as part of logistics processes, and to incorporate them into decisions. This avoids unnecessary lorry journeys between warehouse and production sites, which also has a positive impact on the company's carbon footprint. This data-driven strategy not only creates cost savings and increases efficiency, but also supports ULT in its goal of operating more sustainably and further reducing its environmental impact.Resource efficiency through optimised processesThe use of AI at ULT significantly improves resource efficiency, as more precise demand forecasts and optimised ordering processes reduce excess material stocks and storage costs. This could save around 5 tonnes of steel, 400 kg of copper, 200 kg of aluminium and 400 kg of plastic every year. Energy consumption is also reduced as storage space is used more efficiently and transport costs are reduced thanks to optimised logistics processes. This leads to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions. The implementation costs of the AI solution are expected to be amortised within two years through savings in materials, storage and logistics. In the long term, this sustainable increase in efficiency will strengthen ULT's competitiveness and reduce the company's ecological footprint.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: analyse, create recommendationsAI model: time series analyses, uncertainty quantification and explainable AI (XAI)\n\nValue creation\nPhase: Material requirements planning, procurement, warehousing and logisticsAI objective: More precise requirements forecasting and optimised ordering processes\n\nResource efficiency\nSavings of around 5 tonnes of steel, 400 kg of copper, 200 kg of aluminium and 400 kg of plastic per year\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Mechanical engineeringULT AGFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "System 180 plans, produces and sells the modular, fully dismountable furniture system of the same name. In line with the current corporate strategy, a circular economy business model is to be established. Through the development of the Digital Product Passport (DPP) and the application of artificial intelligence (AI), the AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand is increasing resource efficiency in both the manufacturing and utilisation phases. The solution developed can significantly reduce the resources required for various production processes and keep furniture and components in the material cycle.Modular furniture systems from BerlinSystem 180 from Berlin produces modular furniture systems that customers can configure and order according to their requirements. Production includes the processing of stainless steel profiles into structural components and MdF tool plates into infill panels. Wood and metal processing manufacturing methods are used. The steel components can be powder-coated if required.  System 180 uses, for example, metals such as iron, copper, aluminium and organic materials such as MdF (medium density fibreboard). The furniture is assembled by service partners on site at the customer's premises.challenge: optimising inventory managementIn order to establish a circular business model, a return system is to be developed for furniture and parts that are held by customers, logistics partners or in the company's own storage facilities. The wide variety of modular designs makes recording complex and mobility-intensive; error-free communication between the players is also time-consuming. The AI pilot project aims to solve these challenges using computer vision technologies and a digital product passport in which all furniture and its statuses are recognised and catalogued, making inventory management much easier.Status and quantity recognition with the help of AIThe web application includes object recognition as well as automatic storage and updating of the DPPs of the individual furniture (parts). AI object recognition efficiently records and catalogues selected furniture as well as the number and condition of the respective components. The results of the object recognition are then documented in a DPP together with information from product-related databases. The catalogued furniture and components are stored in a collection (as a metaphorical warehouse), which significantly increases reusability. This web-based solution can be used internally in production and sales as well as externally by customers, and the conditions at System 180 are ideal, as a large amount of real and synthetic image data is already available for model development and will be made available in future to optimise the model. The modular solution can be extended to the entire product portfolio and promotes the transition to a circular economy - which ultimately significantly reduces the consumption of resources and raw materials.Process optimisation along the value chainThe planned solution optimises several phases of the value chain:In summary, the processes will save an enormous amount of time and resources thanks to the web application. Customers will also benefit from easier parts replacement, expansion options for their furniture system and a lower error rate.Conserving resources through digital stocktaking and component recognitionThe use of AI increases resource efficiency by recording furniture and loose stock in a resource-saving manner or identifying faulty components at an early stage. This saves material and reduces CO₂ emissions. Internal production processes can be optimised in terms of both time and personnel. AI also enables the return process that needs to be established to close the material cycle. In addition, the previously time-consuming and error-prone communication effort about stocks that are located in geographically different places is no longer necessary. In future, specialist staff will no longer have to travel to take stock, as the data is recorded digitally, and the main costs of the AI system lie in the initial development and training as well as the ongoing server costs for operating the system. The savings result from reduced material and transport costs, meaning that the investment can be amortised quickly depending on the production volume and error rate.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: object recognition (incl. counting) and condition assessment with storage in the digital product passport AI model: computer vision\n\nValue creation\nPhase: Production, assembly, sales, usage phase, warehouseAI objective: Resource-saving return of furniture to the product cycle through efficient identification and tracking; simplification and optimisation of concentration-intensive routine tasks (e.g. in warehouse management, production or sales)\n\nResource efficiency\nReduction of resources through traceability of stocks, reuse and identification of faulty components\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Furniture sectorSystem 180 GmbHFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service operations. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", "Kalzip GmbH has been producing Kalzip roofs, an aluminium roof system that serves as the outer roof layer, for over 50 years. One of the biggest challenges for the company is to optimise the structural calculations in order to increase resource efficiency. The complexity of the calculations results from the large number of influencing factors such as the orientation, material thickness and geometry of the roofs. To overcome this challenge, an AI-based assistant is to be developed in the AI pilot project to support the company with the structural calculations. Aluminium roof systems from KoblenzKalzip manufactures aluminium roof systems and calculates the associated statics. The so-called Kalzip, which is the outer roof skin, is manufactured from aluminium coils in a factory in Koblenz, including the accessories. The main component of all products is aluminium; individual components are only coated with plastic to prevent cold bridges. Static calculations, which are individualised for each roof, are also a central component of Kalzip's offer. The basis for this is the substructure, which can still be influenced depending on the project. Challenge: More efficient use of resources during productionKalzip faces the challenge of using resources more efficiently in static calculations for aluminium roofs. Currently, thicker aluminium panels are often used to meet complex safety requirements, which leads to increased material consumption. Currently, calculations are based on individual solutions and the experience of structural engineers, which does not always result in a more efficient use of resources. The automatic calculation of the optimal parameters by an AI-supported optimiser would achieve a better result. Additional material can also be saved by optimising the substructure.  Optimising the use of resources with the help of AIThe AI pilot project with the Green-AI Hub Mittelstand makes it possible to optimise the structural calculations for aluminium roofs and reduce material consumption. An AI-based optimiser analyses existing design data and automatically suggests parameters, such as the spacing of the beams and the material thickness. A prerequisite for the use of AI is the digitalisation and structuring of existing structural and project data. No new data needs to be recorded, as Kalzip already has an extensive inventory of relevant data. The new, AI-supported process largely automates the calculations and provides the structural engineers with proposed solutions, which then need to be checked and applied. The structural analyses consist of many parameters with complex dependencies. It is therefore impossible for a human being alone to check all variants and select the most resource-efficient one, but together with an AI, this is possible. Resource savings along the value chainThe section of the value chain addressed includes raw material utilisation and production. The new AI-based solution optimises the static calculations so that material is used more efficiently. Further benefits result from the automation of the planning process, which compensates for the shortage of skilled labour and increases efficiency in structural calculations without compromising on safety or quality. In addition, further savings can be made in other trades if, for example, the substructure can be dimensioned smaller and materials can be saved there as well.Resource efficiency through optimised structural calculationsThe use of AI significantly improves resource efficiency at Kalzip. Optimised static calculations save up to 3% of the aluminium used, which corresponds to around 60 tonnes per year. This reduces CO2 emissions along the supply chain by around 810 tonnes per year. The AI-based solution requires very little computing power, as the calculations are performed in just a few seconds once they have been trained. Thanks to the use of existing GPUs (graphics cards), the investment costs are low. Thanks to the material savings and efficiency gains, the investment is amortised within a short time, probably in less than a year. The long-term savings significantly exceed the initial costs, which leads to a sustainable and economic improvement in production processes. Optimised substructures can also have positive effects on other trades.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capability: data analysis and optimisationAI model: AI-based structural analysis assistant optimises key production parameters\n\nAdded value\nPhase: ProductionAim of the AI: Optimisation of static calculations\n\nResource efficiency\nSavings of up to 3% of the aluminium used (60 tonnes per year) and therefore 810 tonnes of CO2 per year\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Construction industryKalzip GmbH Fieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service assignments. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing", 'HEISMANN Drehtechnik is a manufacturer of precision turned parts whose main challenge is to design automated production processes in such a way that process stability is guaranteed during regular operation. Production interruptions and disruptions caused by material fluctuations, for example, require extensive readjustments by employees and lead to rejects. The aim of the joint AI pilot project is to reduce rejects and save on personnel resources through early error detection and optimised readjustment. Precision turned parts from the Niederberg regionHEISMANN Drehtechnik was founded in 1918 and is now an established manufacturer of precision turned parts with 135 employees. With state-of-the-art machinery including 27 CNC multi-spindle automatic lathes and seven CNC turn-mill centres, precision turned parts are manufactured from various materials such as steel, brass, aluminium and copper.challenges: Reducing production disruptions in the manufacture of precision turned partsProduction interruptions and disruptions mean that the process has to be readjusted again and again. In this case, the production of rejects is much more likely and sometimes even unavoidable. In order to avoid such production disruptions and interruptions as far as possible, employees must continuously monitor and adjust the process. Manual tool correction is a key control variable here. The necessary adjustments depend on numerous influencing factors. However, many of these factors are not transparent to the employees and their effects on the stability of the process are difficult to predict.early detection of errors and optimised readjustment using artificial intelligenceThe aim of the AI pilot project is to reduce the reject rate with the help of early detection and optimised readjustment. Due to the large number of influencing factors (material, temperature, tools, etc.) and the limited transparency, manual readjustment by employees is reaching its limits. This is where the ability of AI to analyse large volumes of data can be put to profitable use. The reduction in process-related waste as a result of the AI pilot project leads to a significant increase in resource efficiency. Artificial intelligence makes it possible to process more information at an early stage and to make the findings available to all employees in the form of recommendations for action. This enables employees to react more quickly and effectively to changes and disruptions in the process. Machine learning (ML) algorithms and small neural networks are used to predict the probability of errors and generate recommendations for machine axis settings and tool life predictions.Saving resources through AI-based process optimisationThe use of an AI solution simplifies the work of employees, who previously often had to rely on their experience and judgement to control the production process. With the help of AI, they can make more informed decisions that make the manufacturing process safer. This makes the company more competitive, as there are fewer quality defects and complaints, which are particularly intolerable with high-precision turned parts. The AI solution also helps to reduce the workload in quality assurance, as early warnings can be given when there is a high probability of defective parts being produced. The use of AI will take data acquisition on the machines and the measurement of parts to a new level, further supporting the digital transformation of HEISMANN Drehtechnik.resource savings through the use of artificial intelligenceThe optimised process control reduces scrap, which primarily saves raw materials such as steel, aluminium and brass. This saving is expected to amount to around 10,700 kg per year. In addition, other resources such as electricity (approx. 19,600 kWh per year), coolant, time and labour are saved, as they do not have to be used for the unnecessary production of faulty parts. This ultimately contributes to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions. In addition, the service life of the moulds is to be extended, which leads to a reduction in machine downtime and thus to further savings, as the restarting of machines increases the susceptibility to the production of rejects.\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tContent could not be displayed\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tPlease accept marketing cookies to watch this video.\n\nTechnology\nAI capabilities: analysing data, making recommendations for actionAI models: regression models, random forests, LSTMs, GRUs\n\nValue creation\nPhase: Production & quality controlAim of AI: Detection of errors to avoid rejects, optimisation of service life\n\nResource efficiency\nReduction of the error rate by 20% and resulting material savings\n\nThe company\nIndustry: Plant and mechanical engineering/productionHeismann Drehtechnik GmbHFieldcode is a cloud-based web application for managing field service assignments. The in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: LLM-supported analysis of tickets in field service management Pikatron GmbH from Usingen manufactures customised power electronics in small series. Many ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based recommendation system for power electronics construction MPG Mendener Präzisionsrohr GmbH is a manufacturer of thermotechnical products from Menden in ...\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tRead more about the article: AI-based process data analysis in precision tube manufacturing']